- Chapter 03: Highlights
    - Java cares about type.
    - Variables come in two flavors: primitive and object reference.
    - variables must have a type
    - variables must have a name
    - A variable is just a cup. A container. It holds something.
    - The compiler won't let you put value from large cup into small one. But what about the other way pouring a small cup into a big one? No problem.
    - There is actually no such thing as an object variable. There's only an object reference variable.
        - An object reference variable holds bits that represent a way to access an object.
        - It doesn't hold the object itself, but it holds something like a pointer. Or an address. Except, in Java we don't really know what is inside a reference variable. a We do know that whatever it is, it represents one and only one object. And the JVM knows how to use the reference to get to the object.
    - Although a primitive variable is full of bits representing the actual value of the variable, an object reference variable is full of bits representing a way to get to the object.
    - We don't care how many 1's and 0's there are in a reference variable It's up to each JVM and the phase of the moon.
    - Q: How big is a reference variable?
        - A: You don't know, but it's generally considered to be a 64-bit value. However, the specific representation is not something you can access or need to worry about. Your concern should be about how many objects you're creating and their actual sizes.
    - Q: So, does that mean that all object references are the same size, regardless of the size of the actual objects to which they refer?
        - A: Yes, all references for a given JVM are typically the same size, regardless of the objects they point to. However, different JVMs may represent references differently, so sizes may vary between JVMs.
    - Q: Can I do arithmetic on a reference variable, increment it, like in C?
        - A: No, you cannot. Java is not like C, and arithmetic operations on reference variables are not supported.
- Chapter 03: Summary
    - Variables come in two flavors: primitive and reference.
    - Variables must always be declared with a name and a type.
    - A primitive variable value is the bits representing the value (5, 'a', true, 3.1416, etc.).
    - A reference variable value is the bits representing away to get to an object on the heap.
    - A reference variable is like a remote control.
    - Using the dot operator (.) on a reference variable is like pressing a button on the remote control to access a method or instance variable.
    - A reference variable has a value of null when it is not referencing any object.
    - An array is always an object, even if the array is declared to hold primitives.