- Chapter 04: Highlights
    - Remember: a class describes what an object knows and what an object does
    - A caller passes arguments. A method takes parameters.
    - If a method takes a parameter, you must pass it something when you call it
    - The compiler won't let you return the wrong type of thing.
    - Java is pass-by-valve. That means pass-by-copy.
    - Q: What happens if the argument you want to pass is an object instead of a primitive?
        - A: In Java, all arguments are passed by value, even if you're dealing with objects. When you pass an object to a method, you're actually passing a copy of the reference to that object, not the object itself. We'll explore this concept further in later chapters.
    - Q: Can a method declare multiple return values? Or is there some way to return more than one value?
        - A: While a method can declare only one return value, you can work around this limitation by returning an array of the desired type. For example, if you need to return multiple int values, you can use an int array to hold and return them. Dealing with multiple values of different types will be discussed in later chapters when we cover ArrayList.
    - Q: Do I have to return the exact type I declared?
        - A: Java allows you to return values that can be implicitly promoted to the declared return type. For instance, you can return a byte when an int is expected, as long as the byte fits within the int. However, when the declared type is smaller than what you're trying to return, you must use an explicit cast, which we'll cover in Chapter 5.
    - Q: Do I have to do something with the return value of a method? Can I just ignore it?
        - A: Java doesn't require you to use or assign the return value of a method. You can call a method with a non-void return type and choose to ignore the return value if you don't need it. Sometimes, you call a method for the work it performs inside the method, not for the value it returns. In Java, you have the flexibility to decide whether to use the return value or not.
    - Getters and Setters let you, well, get and set things. Instance variable values, usually.
        - If you’re into being all formal about it, you might prefer to call them Accessors and Mutators.
    - Encapsulation is the practice of bundling the data (attributes) and methods (functions) that operate on that data into a single unit called a class.
        - The key aspects of encapsulation are:
            - Data Hiding
            - Access Control
            - Information Hiding
            - Maintenance and Evolution
    - Here’s an encapsulation starter rule of thumb: mark your instance variables private and provide public getters and setters for access control.
    - An Object gets candid about encapsulation.
        - So what does encapsulation protect you from?
            - Encapsulation puts a force-field around my instance variables, so nobody can set them to, let's say, something inappropriate.
        - By forcing code to go through setter methods. That way, the setter method can validate the parameter and decide if it’s doable.
    - Any place where a particular value can be used, a method call that returns that type can be used. instead of: int × = 3 + 24; you can say: int x = 3 + one.getSize();
    - Instance variables always get a default value. If you don't explicitly assign a value to an instance variable or you don't call a setter method, the instance variable still has a value!
        - integers 0
        - floating points 0.0
        - booleans false
        - references null
    - Local variables do NOT get a default value! The compiler complains if you try to use a local variable before the variable is initialized.
    - Comparing variables (primitives or references)
        - Use == to compare two primitives or to see if two references refer to the same object.
        - Use the equals() method to see if two different objects are equal.
    - To see if two references are the same (which means they refer to the same object on the heap) use the == operator
        - Foo a = new Foo ()
        - Foo b = new Foo () ;
        - Foo c = a;
        - if (a == b) // false
        - if (a == c) // true
        - if (b == c ) // false
    - Who Am I?
        - A class can have any number of these: instance variables, getter, setter, method
        - A method can have only one of these: return
        - This can be implicitly promoted: return: argument
        - I prefer my instance variables private: encapsulation
        - It really means "make a copy.": pass by value
        - Only setters should update these: instance variables
        - A method can have many of these: argument
        - I return something by definition: getter
        - I shouldn't be used with instance variables: public
        - I can have many arguments. method
        - By definition, I take one argument: setter
        - These help create encapsulation. getter, setter, public, private
        - I always fly solo: return
- Chapter 04: Summary
    - Classes define what an object knows and what an object does.
    - Things an object knows are its instance variables (state).
    - Things an object does are its methods (behavior).
    - Methods can use instance variables so that objects of the same type can behave differently.
    - A method can have parameters, which means you can pass one or more values in to the method.
    - The number and type of values you pass in must match the order and type of the parameters declared by the method.
    - Values passed in and out of methods can be implicitly promoted to a larger type or explicitly cast to a smaller type.
    - The value you pass as an argument to a method can be a literal value (2, 'c', etc.) or a variable of the declared parameter type (for example, X where X is an int variable). There are other things you can pass as arguments, but we're not there yet.
    - A method must declare a return type. A void return type means the method doesn't return anything.
    - If a method declares a non-void return type, it must return a value compatible with the declared return type.
    - Encapsulation gives you control over who changes the data in your class and how.
    - Make an instance variable private so it can't be changed by accessing the variable directly.
    - Create a public mutator method, e.g., a setter, to control how other code interacts with your data For example, you can add validation code inside a setter to make sure the value isn't changed to something invalid.
    - Instance variables are assigned values by default, even if you don't set them explicitly.
    - Local variables, e.g., variables inside methods, are not assigned a value by default. You always need to initialize them.
    - Use == to check to if two primitives are the same value. to Use == to check if two references are the same, i.e., two object variables are actually the same object.
    - Use equals() to see if two objects are equivalent (but not necessarily the same object), e.g., to check if two String values contain the same characters.