- Chapter 05: Highlights
    - Developing a Class
        - Figure out what the class is supposed to do.
        - List the instance variables and methods.
        - Write prep code for the methods. 
        - Write test code for the methods.
        - Implement the class.
        - Test the methods.
        - Debug and reimplement as needed.
    - Test-Driven Development (TDD)
        - Back in 1999, Extreme Programming (XP) was a newcomer to the software development methodology world. One of the central ideas in XP was to write test code before writing the actual code. 
        - Here is a partial list of key ideas in TDD:
            - Write the test code first.
            - Develop in iteration cycles.
            - Keep it (the code) simple.
            - Refactor (improve the code) whenever and wherever you notice the opportunity.
            - Don't release anything until it passes all the tests.
            - Don't put in anything that's not in the spec (no matter how tempted you are to put in functionality "for the future").
            - No killer schedules; work regular hours.
        - Q: How do you run a test for something that doesn't yet exist?
            - A: You don't start by running the test; you start by writing the test. When you write the test code, you may need to create "stub" code that compiles but always causes the test to fail, such as returning null.
        - Q: Why not wait until the code is written and then create the test code?
            - A: Writing the test code before implementation clarifies what the method needs to do. It ensures that you have test code ready to validate the implementation when it's done. If you postpone it, you might never write the tests because there's always something more interesting to do.
            - The ideal approach is to write a bit of test code, then implement only what's necessary to pass that specific test. Continue this process, running all previously written tests after each iteration to ensure that new code additions don't break previously tested code.
- Chapter 05: Summary
    - Your Java program should start with a high- level design.
    - Typically you'll write three things when you create a new class: 
        - prep code
        - test code 
        - real (Java) code 
    - Prep code should describe what to do, not how to do it. Implementation comes later. 
    - Use the prep code to help design the test code.
    - A class can have one superclass only.
    - Write test code before you implement the methods.
    - Choose for loops over while loops when you know how many times you want to repeat the loop code.
    - The enhanced for loop is an easy way to loop over an array or collection.
    - Use the increment operator to add 1 to a variable (x++;).
    - Use the decrement operator to subtract 1 from 1 a variable (x--;).
    - Use break to leave a loop early (i.e., even if the boolean test condition is still true).