##  Data Structures: collections and generics 

- Over time, Java has evolved to remove unnecessary code duplication from its syntax. If the compiler can figure out a type, you don't always need to write it out in full.
- ArrayList<String> songs = new ArrayList<>();
    - The compiler can tell from what you wrote on the left-hand side what you probably want on the right-hand side. It uses type inference to infer (work out) the type you need.
- Excerpts from the API
    - java.util.List 
        - sort(Comparator): Sorts this list according to the order induced by the specified Comparator.
    - java.util.Collections 
        - sort(List):Sorts the specified list into ascending order, according to the natural ordering (Alphabetical) of its elements.
        - sort(List, Comparator): Sorts the specified list according to the order defined by the Comparator.
- Generics means more type-safety
    - Although generics can be used in other ways, you'll often use generics to write type-safe collections. In other words, code that makes the compiler stop you from putting a Dog into a list of Ducks.
    - Without generics the compiler could not care less what you put into a collection, because all collection implementations hold type Object. You could put anything in any Array List without generics; it's like the Array List is declared as ArrayList<Object>.
- Without generics, the compiler would happily let you put a Pumpkin into an Array List that was supposed to hold only Cat objects. With generics, you can create type-safe collections where more problems are caught at compile-time instead of runtime.
- Learning generics
    - Creating instances of generic classes (like ArrayList) new ArrayList<Song>() 
    - Declaring and assigning variables of generic types List<Song> songList = new ArrayList<Song>() 
    - Declaring (and invoking) methods that take generic types void foo (List<Song> list){ x.foo(songList); } 
- In generics, the keyword "extends" really means "IS-A" and works for BOTH classes and interfaces.
- If you pass a Comparator to the sort() method, the sort order is determined by the Comparator. If you don't pass a Comparator and the element is Comparable, the Sort order is determined by the element's compareTo() method.
- A Comparable element in a list can compare itself to another of its own type in only one way, using its compare To( method. But a Comparator is external to the element type you're comparing it's a separate class. So you can make as many of these as you like! Want to compare songs by artist? Make an ArtistComparator. Sort by beats per minute? Make a BpmComparator.
- Invoking the Collections.sort(List list) method means the list element's compareTo() method determines the order. The elements in the list MUST implement the Comparable interface.
- Using a custom Comparator
    - import java.util.Comparator;

public class ArtistCompare implements Comparator<SongV3> {
@Override
public int compare(SongV3 one, SongV3 two) {
    // Compare the artists of two songs lexicographically
    return one.getArtist().compareTo(two.getArtist());
}
}

- Invoking List.sort(Comparator c) or Collections.sort(List list, Comparator c) means the Comparator's compare() method will be used. That means the elements in the list do NOT need to implement the Comparable interface, but if they do, the list element's compareTo() method will NOT be called.
- A better approach would be to handle all of the sorting definitions in classes that implement Comparator.
- You can even declare the inner class right where you use it (instead of at the end of your class file); this is sometimes called an "argument-defined anonymous inner class." Sounds fun already:
    - songList.sort(new Comparator<SongV3>(){
public int compare (SongV3 one, SongV3 two) 
	return one.getTitle().compareTo(two.getTitle()); 
}
}) ; 
    - Call the sort method on the list of songs and pass it a reference to a Comparator object, which is designed specifically to sort Song objects
- Enter lambdas! Leveraging what the compiler can infer
    - songList.sort((one, two) -> one.getTitle().compareTo(two.getTitle())); 
- Some interfaces have only ONE method to implement
    - With interfaces like Comparator, we only have to implement a single abstract method, SAM for short. These interfaces are so important that they have several special names:
    - SAM Interfaces a.k.a Functional Interfaces
- LIST - when sequence matters
    - Collections that know about index position.
    - Lists know where something is in the list. You can have more than one element referencing the same object.
- SET - when uniqueness matters
    - Collections that do not allow duplicates.
    - Sets know whether something is already in the collection. You can never have more than one element referencing the same object (or more than one element referencing two objects that are considered equal we'll look at what object equality means in a moment).
- MAP - when finding something by key matters Collections that use key-value pairs.
    - Maps know the value associated with a given key. You can have two keys that reference the same value, but you cannot have duplicate keys. A key can be any object.
- The Collection API
    - Collection (interface)
        - Set
            - SortedSet (interface)
                - TreeSet
            - LinkedHashSet
            - HashSet
        - List
            - ArrayList
            - LinkedList
            - Vector
    - Map (interface)
        - SortedMap
            - TreeMap
        - HashMap
        - LinkedHashMap
        - HashTable
    - Maps don't extend from java.util.Collection, but they're still Considered to be part of the Collection Framework in Java. So Map is still referred to as a collection.
- What makes two objects equal?
    - Reference equality Two references, one object on the heap.
        - Two references that refer to the same object on the heap are equal. Period. If you call the hashCode() method on both references, you'll get the same result. If you don't override the hashCode () method, the default behavior (remember, you inherited this from class Object) is that each object will get a unique number (most versions of Java assign a hashcode based on the object's memory address on the heap, so no two objects will have the same hashcode).
        - If you want to know if two references are really referring to the same object, use the ⇒ operator, which (remember) compares the bits in the variables. If both references point to the same object, the bits will be identical.
    - Object equality Two references, two objects on the heap, but the objects are considered meaningfully equivalent.
        - If you want to treat two different Song objects as equal (for example if you decided that two Songs are the same if they have matching title variables), you must override both the hashCode() and equals() methods inherited from class Object.
        - As we said above, if you don't override hashCode(), the default behavior (from Object) is to give each object a unique hashcode value. So you must override hashCode() to be sure that two equivalent objects return the same hashcode. But you must also override equals() so that if you call it on either object, passing in the other object, always returns true.
- If we want the set to stay sorted, we've got TreeSet
- TreeSet elements MUST be comparable.
- To use a TreeSet, one of these things must be true:
    - The elements in the list must be of a type that implements Comparable
    - You use the TreeSet's overloaded constructor that takes a Comparator
- Each element in a Map is actually TWO objects a key and a value. You can have duplicate values, but NOT duplicate keys.
- Convenience Factory Methods for Collections
    - Convenience Factory Methods for Collections allow you to easily create a List, Set, or Map that's been prefilled with known data. 
    - There are a couple of things to understand about using them:
        - The resulting collections cannot be changed. You can't add to them or alter the values; in fact, you can't even do the sorting that we've seen in this chapter.
        - The resulting collections are not the standard Collections we've seen. These are not ArrayList, HashSet, HashMap, etc. You can rely on them to behave according to their interface: a List will always preserve the order in which the elements were placed; a Set will never have duplicates. But you can't rely on them being a specific implementation of List, Set, or Map.
    - Creating a List: List.of()
    - Creating a Set: Set.of()
    - Creating a Map: Map.of(), Map.ofEntries()
- When you use a wildcard in your method argument, the compiler will STOP you from doing anything that could hurt the list referenced by the method parameter. You can still call methods on the elements in the list, but you cannot add elements to the list. In other words, you can do things with the list elements, but you can't put new things in the list.
- Using the wildcard ("? extends") is fine when you don't care much about the generic type, you just want to allow all subtypes of some type. Using a type parameter ("T") is more helpful when you want to do more with the type itself, for example in the method's return.