## What, Not How: lambdas and streams 

### Chapter 12: Highlights
- The forEach method of: list takes a lambda expression. This is a way for you to pass behavior ("follow these instructions") into a method, instead of passing an object containing data ("here is an object for you to use").
- The Streams API is a set of operations we can perform on a collection, so when we read these operations in our code, we can understand what we’re trying to do with the collection data.
- Stream methods that return another Stream are called Intermediate Operations. These are instructions of things to do, but they don't actually perform the operation on their own.
- Building blocks of common operations
    - filter: 'filter' is an intermediate operation that allows you to specify a predicate (a condition) to select elements based on whether they satisfy the given condition. 
    - skip: 'skip' is an intermediate operation in streams that discards the specified number of elements from the beginning of the stream before passing the remaining elements to the next operation in the pipeline. 
    - limit: 'limit' is an intermediate operation that restricts the stream to a fixed size, allowing only the specified number of elements to pass through to the subsequent operations in the pipeline. 
    - distinct: 'distinct is an intermediate operation that eliminates duplicate elements from the stream, ensuring that each element appears only once in the resulting stream. 
    - sorted: 'sorted' is an intermediate operation that returns a sorted view of the stream. Elements are sorted based on their natural order Or a provided comparator. 
    - map: 'map is an intermediate operation that transforms each element of the stream using the provided function. It produces a new stream consisting of the transformed elements. 
    - drop While: Introduced in Java 9, dropWhile is an intermediate operation that discards elements from the beginning of the stream until a specified condition is no longer true.
    - take While: Also introduced in Java 9, takeWhile* is an intermediate operation that returns elements from the beginning of the stream until a specified condition is no longer true.
- Streams are like recipes: nothing's going to happen until someone actually cooks them.
- One of the most common things to do with Streams is put the results into another type of collection.
- stream pipeline
    - Get the Stream from a source collection.
    - Call zero or more intermediate operations on the Stream.
    - Output the results with a terminal operation.
- Example of stream pipeline
    - List<String> strings = List. of ("I", "am" "a", "list", "of", "Strings");
    List<String> result = strings.stream().sorted().limit(4).collect(Collectors.toList());
    System. out.println ("result = " + result) ;
    // Output:  result = [I, Strings, a, am]

- Intermediate operations are lazily evaluated. Terminal operations are eager;
- Terminal operations do all the work: 
    - Since intermediate operations are lazy, it's up to the terminal operation to do everything.
        - Perform all the intermediate operations as efficiently as possible. Ideally, just going through the original data once.
        - Work out the result of the operation, which is defined by the terminal operation itself. For example, this could be a list of values, a single value, or a boolean (true/false).
- Guidelines for working with streams
    - You need at least the first and last pieces to create a stream pipeline.
    - You can't reuse Streams. Return the result.
    - You can't change the underlying collection while the stream is operating.
- Stream operations don't change the original collection.
- Lambda expressions are objects, and you run them by calling their Single Abstract Method
- A lambda expression implements a Functional Interface.
- Lambdas aren't magic; they're just classes like everything else.
- A lambda might have more than one line
- A lambda might not return anything
- A lambda might have zero, one, or many parameters
- Originally, the only kind of methods allowed in interfaces were abstract methods, methods that need to be overridden by any class that implements this interface. But as of Java 8, interfaces can also contain default and static methods.
- With interfaces, any method that is not defined as default or static is an abstract method that must be overridden.
- Method references can replace lambda expressions, but you don't have to use them. Sometimes method references make the code easier to understand.
- Collecting results in different ways
    - Collectors.toList and Collectors.toUnmodifiableList
    - Collectors.toSet and Collectors.to UnmodifiableSet
    - Collectors.toMap and Collectors.toUnmodifiableMap
    - Collectors.joining
        
### Chapter 12: Summary
    - You don’t have to write detailed code telling the JVM exactly what to do and how to do it. You can use library methods, including the Streams API, to query collections and output the results.
    - Use forEach on a collection instead of creating a for loop. Pass the method a lambda expression of the operation to perform on each element of the collection.
    - Create a stream from a collection (a source) by calling the stream method.
    - Configure the query you want to run on the collection by calling one or more intermediate operations on the stream.
    - You won’t get any results until you call a terminal operation. There are a number of different terminal operations depending upon what you want your query to output.
    - To output the results into a new List, use collect(Collectors. toList) as the terminal operation.
    - The combination of the source collection, intermediate operations, and terminal operations is a stream pipeline.
    - Stream operations do not change the original collection; they are a way to query the collection and return a different Object, which is a result of the query.