## Dealing with Concurrency Issues: race conditions and immutable data

### Chapter 18: Summary

- You can have serious problems with threads if two or more threads are trying to change the same data.
- Two or more threads accessing the same object can lead to data corruption if one thread, for example, leaves the running state while still in the middle of In manipulating an object's critical state.
- To make your objects thread-safe, decide which statements should be treated as one atomic process. In other words, decide which methods must run to completion before another thread enters the same method on the same object.
- Use the keyword synchronized to modify a method declaration when you want to prevent two threads from entering that method.
- Every object has single lock, with a single key for that lock. Most of the time we don't care about that lock; locks come into play only when an object has or synchronized methods or use the synchronized keyword with a specified object.
- When a thread attempts to enter a synchronized method, the thread must get the key for the object (the object whose method the thread is trying to run). If the key is not available (because another thread already has it), the thread goes into a kind of waiting lounge until the key becomes available.
- Even if an object has more than one synchronized method, there is still only one key. Once any thread has entered a synchronized method on that object, no thread can enter any other synchronized method on the same object. This restriction lets you protect your data by synchronizing any method that manipulates the data.
- The synchronized keyword isn't the only way to safeguard your data from multi- threaded changes. Atomic variables, with CAS operations, may be suitable if it's just one value that is being changed by multiple threads.
- It's writing data from multiple threads that causes the most problems, not reading, SO consider if your data needs to be changed at all or if it can be immutable.
- Make a class immutable by making the class final, making all the fields final, setting the values just once in the constructor or field declaration, and having no setters or other methods that can change the data.
- Having immutable objects in your application doesn't mean nothing ever changes; it means that you limit the parts of your application where you have to worry about multiple threads changing the data.
- There are thread-safe data structures that let you have multiple threads reading the data while one (or more) threads change the data. Some of these are in java.util.concurrent.
- Concurrent programming is difficult! But there are plenty of tools to help you.